five you get less enthusiastic with
after it's been a few times you're like
you're not really we're live all right
we're live what's up man
how are you guys are doing this thanks
for having me my pleasure
sorry for the false starts we've been
having issues with our equipment good to
see though man what's up good to be here
and talk Hunter Thompson my pleasure
so your book freak Kingdom you know we
live in interesting times right now it's
kind of a kind of a shit show at every
campus moment about a fist from your
face pull that sucker tango which sure
with my hand should I put him on you do
whatever you want with your hands I
shoot with this one what is all this you
got a lot of writing well well when I
wrote the book I wanted to make sure my
sentences never sounded like constant
sentences right so I didn't write out a
lot of his sentences but this morning
before coming on I went and got some of
my favorite quotes I'm just weird about
longhand to get a sense of what is uh
what his perspective was rhythm once
again didn't he do that with the great
gatsby
he like a few times yeah a hand he like
typed it out yeah I loved that idea that
he was trying to find like the rhythm of
the words that's such a fascinating
notion because comedians do that in the
early days of comedy like a lot of guys
in like before they ever start killing
onstage themselves they'll imitate their
favorite comedians bits like they'll do
a Richard Pryor bit and they'll do it to
their friends and they'll get get a
sense of the rhythm and the timing and
get those laughs from doing a Richard
Pryor bit to their friends and then they
get that bug it's like part of what
infects them I mean that's the hardest
thing to steal we're not plagiarizing
but we're trying to understand what
decisions they made yeah beautiful work
yeah I'm sure he wasn't plagiarizing but
it's it's so unfortunate when when
someone does yes you know when when you
have someone whether it's hunter or
Richard Pryor anyone has just got a
truly exceptional and unique mind or
someone who doesn't like our president
and decided when he ran in 2016 to
plagiarize Richard Nixon's 1968
convention speech it directly really
yeah that was the headline in the
fucking times that said Nixon's
inspiration I'm sorry Trump's
inspiration Nixon is the one so the lies
about crime and
like barbarians at the gates crime law
and order those were all from Nixon's
shitty but successful 1968 Miami
convention speech and Thompson you know
top some knew how effective that that
was yeah I wonder if he did that on
purpose because he was so good and one
thing that Trump is so good at he's so
good at getting the media to talk about
him and like one of the best ways to get
the media to talk about I'm was give
them something to be angry about that no
one else is gonna give a fuck about he
was like oh Melania plagiarized but I
plagiarize much better for initiative
that's right so what I loved it
Melania took some lines from Michelle
Obama's yes right yeah and you know if
you plagiarize Nixon that's okay I mean
so well freaking them the book about
unrest Thompson I mean it's really about
taking the fucking emotion of living in
this present looking back at Thompson's
career and then trying to write it like
a novel to dramatize all of the
experiences he went through that hour
today so applicable to us and just show
his perspective that's so applicable to
us today what do you got here Jimmy
from New York Times convention Biddy
inspiration Nixon i was like i if you're
running on nixon wells what you're
running on here are some parallels you
know i mean do you remember when when
hunter got together with Bill Murray and
Bill's brother and they did that thing
where they were trying to get people to
Nixon got a bad deal we got to bring him
back and people were going along with
that
oh yeah yeah remember that yeah like
that there's a lot of parallels with
Trump in that regard I mean it one of my
favorite quotes by um Thompson is like
you know Richard Nixon is with this
Barbie doll family and his Barbie doll
wife is like America's answer to you
know it's as America's dr. Jekyll mr.
Hyde like you know he is the werewolf he
speaks to the werewolf in US and Nixon
chose to hide that werewolf his whole
career until it finally came out because
he was insane with power Trump ran on
the werewolf he's like no I'm not gonna
hide it that's who I am that's what I'm
gonna use to try to get elected and like
George Wallace did like other
politicians did it had resonance and it
happened with Trump because of our media
environment because of the place we live
in narrow to amplify him all the way to
the most
powerful position in the world which is
insane it would be really fascinating to
see if hunter was alive and in his prime
now how I think his take on it was very
similar to Matt Taibbi you know like
Matt Taibbi and is in my opinion our
more reasonable more put-together
version of Hunter Thompson because he's
more sustained when long career he's
like rational and he's there all the
time like I'm sure you've heard the
recently uncovered recording of Hunter
calling in to some company that
installed a DVD player and he's fucking
screaming and yelling it's like 15
minutes and then he like it's lost the
fucking player doesn't work my fucking
cords maybe that was in the nineteen
eighties were not the best you know I
think what Taibbi does is what Thompson
did very well Hunter Thompson was really
good at looking at Nixon saying how are
you manipulating the way we see you did
a version of you out and Taibbi looks at
the way the media gets played he looks
at the way that an administration
manipulates the media and he dramatizes
that well everybody else just gives us
the information the administration is
giving us and that goes back to Thompson
with Nixon Thompson had space when he
worked for Rolling Stone he could write
about how Nixon made everybody watch his
speeches the press on a closed-circuit
television and they made the press just
like Trump off in the corner when the
plane arrived you know being berated by
everybody it's very similar to what is
going on now and again we see people
giving hot takes or we see people doing
op eds we don't see people
dramatizing how manipulative these
corrupt administrations are and were and
Thompson did that beautifully Navy does
that beautifully was Nixon being berated
by the press is that why he chose to I
thought he was I mean he was a crook so
he doesn't want the press to investigate
him like he you know he was a crook with
San Clemente like his loans with bebe
rebozo and all of that he was quick the
way to use the IRS to investigate his
and it means he was a crook when he
tried to break into the Brookings
Institution to destroy and vom evidence
like he didn't want the press around him
because he had committed very serious
crimes that I think that's similar
that's what we see now I mean as people
said on the show no president wants the
a journalist you know digging into their
lives specifically because it's you
don't want chumminess with journalists
but I think Trump and Nixon both knew
they had so much to hide that to
actually have a journalist like Hunter
Thompson who was a good investigative
journalist to have
like Matt Taibbi around that's dangerous
for them they'll go to jail which Nixon
should have yeah perhaps should well who
knows what's going to happen how did you
how'd you get involved with writing this
book well I mean I've always loved
unrest Thompson in I was hurt you get
exposed to him you know in in you know I
was 17 years old in a Catholic High
School at Bellarmine college preparatory
up in San Jose and we had a
counterculture writing class and so I
read some of it there and then a friend
had an audio book of fear and loathing
and so I just remember the first time
hearing that old audio book of fear and
loathing and we're somewhere around
Barstow at the edge of the desert
and then in my 20s I really got into
some strange rumblings in zil on which
is about a conspiracy within the Los
Angeles Police Department regarding the
death of Ruben Salazar I'm a prominent
journalist and I read that I'm like oh
my god dude this isn't somebody that's
just dancing on stage or like performing
a road narrative this is an
investigative journalist who's going to
the most powerful people exposing things
they don't want us to see and in a sense
risking his life to do so because he
says in a strange room only was an
awesome song which is in Rolling Stone
in 1970 he says if they're willing to
kill Ruben Salazar who was the most
prominent journalist in Los Angeles you
could argue at the time what the fuck is
to stop them from killing me Hunter
Thompson for asking these questions well
I think that's what a lot of people are
saying today with Jamel khashoggi you
know mmm Jamaal khashoggi 'he's death
has got a lot of journalists really
freaking out like what you know what am
i doing if I'm criticizing world leaders
and talking about international politics
if this could happen to me political
violence is effective because it's used
to silence either opposition or
journalists and so for me writing this
book and I tried to dramatize it like a
novel it's quick it's like only 220 210
pages and then it's like a hundred pages
of notes so I excited every sight smell
or sound so that's somebody that knows
Thompson really well it can be like
where the fuck did you get this
information and somebody else can if
they have questions just go back and
look but long story short for me the
crux of the book was in Chicago in 1968
where Hunter Thompson had a press pass
he went to the Democratic National
Convention on Wednesday night Mayor
Daley gave this order to clear the
intersection of Balboa in Michigan
because there is a protest going on five
ten thousand people
Thompson was standing next to the
Haymarket in which was on the ground
floor level it was a plate-glass window
he was standing with delegates from the
Democratic National Convention standing
with their wives and the cops charged
they did like a double pinch of
formation like Hannibal in like come on
like fucking 100 BC and they split the
protesters in half beat everybody hit
Thompson over the head he got his
motorcycle helmet on just in time so
he's not gonna cussed he can see
everything that's going on in the entire
plate glass window behind him shatters
everybody falls in cops jump in are
beating everybody and he's looking
around and he's sure that snipers on the
roof are gonna open fire at any moment
so he runs to the Blackstone where he's
staying across the way shows his room
key gets beat up by the cops he's trying
to get in he goes I live here goddamn it
I'm paying $100 a day let me get my
fucking room and he barely gets in and
he just sits on his bed afterwards and
he says they knew I was pressed they saw
my press pass they hit me because I was
pressed and if that's where we're at
right now with journalists you know if
political opponents and journalists are
being clubbed to keep silent and to not
respond then this is not the democracy
we know
yeah his ex-wife talked about that as
being like one of the only moments where
she saw him cry for two weeks she's
cried afterwards for two weeks he
couldn't stop it's crazy
Wow it was a crazy time right I mean
that that time is very similar in a lot
of ways to what's going on today it's
just today there's just so much more
information and so much more people have
so much more of an ability to
communicate yeah and I think it's almost
easier to coordinate violence I was just
talking to the head of the proud boys
you know Gavin McInnes is a group um I'm
Enrique otrio and he's like you know
he's he's saying he's using the language
of the left he's like I'm a victim I
can't buy groceries they've taken my big
accounts my platforms but when he talks
about violence he's like who the fuck
are you and he fell like I'm you know
you're a hundred twenty pounds in wet
like we have civil war you're gonna lose
and I was sitting next to under in the
podcast and basically what I said was if
we have a civil war you're gonna be hit
by sniper fire from the fucking roof
you're not going to be in a fistfight
with antifa across the way and I think
there's this idea on the right that we
can push towards violence and we can get
very close to it with our rhetoric
or with our actions but that it won't
spread like the conflagration won't keep
going yeah I don't know if that's
isolated to the right I mean with India
on the left too and that's why I love
Thompson was as hard on the left as he
was on the right when he wrote that was
so important for his intelligence as a
writer but I think just even the left
and the right in general for a lot of
these people is just an identity and a
gang that they belong to and I don't
think they really understand violence
you know you want to talk about violence
talk to a military guy you know talk to
someone who really understands what
violence actually is and they don't have
this empty rhetoric like these fools do
there's a lot of these people that are
calling for violence like you know you
should be calling for camaraderie you
should be calling for communication we
should be calling for some way we could
all work this out where the civilians
this the civilization that we live in
that we are we all can get along
together and most people don't want to
impede you from living your life and
doing what you want to do most people
the vast majority hundred also believed
in working within the system you know
you believe like it might be a fucked up
system but you can still run for sheriff
in Aspen and you believe once you resort
to violence that means the conversation
is stopped and it disfigures you so he
cried for two weeks that was the most
surprising thing for me researching this
book and writing it was to see how much
the violence affected him that he
experienced at Chicago you can speak to
someone who's done and I'm a fighting
who's been punched in the face as hard
as somebody can punch you
most Americans haven't had that and that
changes your ability to articulate
something back in that moment it means
you if that's political if it's a police
officer or a political opponent that
uses violence instead of an argument to
respond to you we've left the realm that
we recognize and we're not going to be
able to communicate even in the limited
way that were communicating right now
and Thompson do that so that's why after
Chicago I loved that he went back to
Aspen anything I went to fucking Sheriff
you know I'm gonna do a mayoral campaign
in Aspen and that was brilliant because
it was his way to control his
environment knowing that Mayor Daley's
not listening to his nonviolent protest
Richard Nixon is not listening to his
nonviolent protest
Thompson needed to find another avenue
to try to work within the American
system to make things happen and a great
contrast is his good friend Oscar Zeta
Acosta there's a wonderful PBS
documentary eight rise and fall the
brown buffalo by on philip rodriguez a
great director and it's a kostas life
that's who dr. gonzo
for infinity and you know Thompson had
more advantages than Acosta and Acosta
was being Christine by the LAPD was
eventually set up by them and for him
working within the system he ran for
sheriff it wasn't an option the cops set
him up for a high-speed bust you know
like the cops had the cops had
undercover agents from something called
the special operations for conspiracy
which is a fucking department in the
LAPD at the time and they were trying to
use those provocateurs to incite
violence against the plain clothes
please so that or the normal clothes
police so that lethal violence could be
used to silence a civil rights movement
robbery so they used agent provocateurs
to make it look like they're a part of
the protest yeah there's an age-old
tactic that's how you destroy a civil
rights movement because the most
effective weapon in silencing civil
rights is lethal force and you can do
that in another country as the US has
done but the US can't use tactics like
my lie like Thompson writes about this
in the US unless you have a provocative
reason unless somebody that's undercover
attacks a cop and so the cops then like
what happened on August 29th 1978 during
the moratorium riots can just flood East
LA whoever they want they can they blue
ribbons hollers Art's head off with the
teargas gun Wow
yeah those are darker days when you
couldn't communicate as well and I think
that's one of the reasons why hunter
decided to run for sheriff in Aspen is
that he felt like he could control that
area like it would have a direct impact
on his life the local politics have a
real impact in your day to day existence
whereas what's going on in Washington
for the most part it's not affecting you
if you live it in Woody Creek yeah I
mean there were people that had Nixon's
point of view in Aspen who are like
let's develop this valley beyond what it
can hold in terms of its environment
let's imprison hippies because they are
going to take away from our tourists on
you know economy you know let's you know
not have or not adhere to normal like
civil rights laws and so Thompson you
know in a participatory democracy almost
a Jeffersonian democracy
way ran for sheriff by emphasizing
personal agency and most of all trying
to get out the youth vote like people
who had left the political system but
we're living in Aspen a lot of people
who like hippies who had fled the cities
in the late 1960s and we're living you
know in the West and he got them
involved and they should have won the
mayor may
campaign with Joe Edwards that Thompson
was the director of that and they lost
by like six votes and when you ran for
sheriff it got really bad and he talks
about this in fair another thing on the
campaign trail later is that a few
nights before both parties the Democrats
and the Republicans freaked out and so
the Democrats said all right we'll kind
of throw our weight behind you the
Republican Sheriff and then you
Republicans will throw your weight for a
county manager behind our candidate and
so Thompson losing by like two or three
hundred votes and so in Fear and
Loathing in Las Vegas on the campaign
trail in 1972 he's at the Nixon campaign
Nixon's giving his acceptance speech at
the convention
Thompson's with the Nixon youth who are
about to do a demonstration and he says
like you know I'm not a journalist you
can't kick me out like I'm a political
observer he's like have you ever run for
office and then Nixon guy is like no I
have you in Thompson's like sheriff and
I would have won but the Liberals stuck
it to me it was long-haired opponent my
London I mean that is a great that
debate like so in the book I recreate
that debate a lot like because there's
transcripts of it that debate is
brilliant Thompson is amazing it yeah
the guy's like I've only used my gun
once in ten years but I like to have it
hung it's like well if you've used it
once in ten years maybe you don't need
it we could try not having it you know
and his gun rights views were very
complex and changed after Bobby
Kennedy's death but he was so
intelligent on stage when this sheriff
who's like I just want this job real bad
like gulping like you know it couldn't
this was Visser rated by Thompson yeah
you know it's a it's a really
interesting the the documentary that
follows the campaign and when you get to
see him you know heart felon when he
loses you got a sense of what that there
was real hope back then like that if
these guys could do that and what's
interesting now is you know back in the
70s they really did have a freak
community in Aspen
that shit's gone now I don't know what a
billionaires have replaced the
millionaires place man you go to Aspen
you see there's like 20 million-dollar
houses and people like it's one of the
rare places where people still wear fur
coats you know I think not ironically or
fake but real fur coat well if you wear
a fur coat in LA first of all it's never
pulled it off your fur coat but if you
did you might get fucked up
thrown on you go down you know like you
you most likely nothing's gonna happen
but there's a possible chance which is
really weird because if you wear a
leather jacket you have no problem yeah
it's weird you know I mean Aspen's weird
because a lot of the Thompsons friends
like Lauren Jenkins a great journalist
they moved down to basalt they had
stayed down Valley so I was out there
with his um his son Juan Thompson is a
fantastic writer he wrote a book called
stories I tell myself about his
relationship with his father yeah I'm in
contact with one through email he's a
really good writer and he's a really
honest and brilliant writer he seems
like a good dude and he seemed like a
really good dude in the gonzo
documentary as well he's that was a
great document yes yeah I'm a big fan of
Gibney he he always kills it I am I went
to the the tavern and Woody Creek when I
wasn't felt like if I'm here we gotta go
I gotta go there
that was weird it's weird being there
man when did you go how long ago was
that I just was a year ago
you're now dead there were people on
bicycles just riding their bikes by the
whole time it's on this huge bike route
so I was cold as fuck it was the winter
we were there for a ski trip so what did
you think of it well it's just cool you
know it's like there's places you go to
where you just you just kind of you know
I was with my family they didn't give a
fuck my kids have no idea who he is
the children here need to know who he is
my kids will learn eventually but
they're just eating enchiladas yeah
but it's just it's to me it you know
represented a big part of who he you
know this is like this is his home base
he came out to San Francisco and there's
a picture of me there I think there's a
picture of me there on my Instagram I
was a special place for him when he was
in San Francisco was like being on the
central nerve he was there from 64 to 67
and I were 66 and he saw the first
Jefferson Airplane concert right next to
the matrix he went out every night to
like 5:00 a.m. but here's what the Hells
Angels that's awesome another respect
quite a few margaritas here he could
divide his life up look the power you
know I've seen the background that freak
power the yeah the sheriff's campaign
symbol but he moved up wood Creek and he
suddenly had you see it in his you see
when you interview people that knew him
you see it in his letters he had space
again and being in the city was hard for
him because I write beautifully about
the Hells Angels about the
countercultural scene he was at war
protests in the Free Speech Movement
with Mario Savio he was there but it was
burning him up you know it was using him
up and I think when you went to Woody
Creek he learned that all right I can
take a plane to Chicago get my ass
kicked but I can come back and if I want
to have a drink I can go to that tavern
or I can go to the Jerome hotel yeah
that's a good space and I think that was
a good space for him yeah well I think
that's a probably a very intelligent
move on his behalf and a lot of us I
think that are involved in day to day
chaos would probably benefit from
something somewhere I mean I just don't
think he gets enough credit for his
effort you know one thing I found when
reading the book I interviewed many of
you Bob Geiger whom fear loathing is
dedicated to and who was a doctor that I
was a friend of his in Sonoma and Geiger
initially was the one who prescribed him
dexedrine and so people think Thompson
was just doing acid and writing or
whatever and maybe later as a caricature
whoever he became that might have been
part of his persona but when he was
writing from the book of Kennedy's
assassination to Nixon's resignation he
was working so fucking hard like he was
working harder than we can ever imagine
Douglas Brinkley is the presidential
historian who does his literary estate
talks about Thompson wasn't as fun as he
seemed during that time he took
dexedrine to write and he had a drinking
problem this is some sort of an
amphetamine in general adderall that's
cut differently with salt so it's a
little bit like you go a little higher
and when it comes down it's a little
harder while adderall was Oba trawl
which was an old diet drug and then was
repurposed in like 96 that is a little
bit smoother in that sense but it's very
similar to what to what Thompson took he
had a great editor named Margaret
Harrell who was his editor on Hell's
Angels and he didn't know she was 27
when he was 20 or any thought she was
like 55 because they would talk on the
phone every day to edit the book and he
sent her she still has the letter I've
done some events with her she still has
the actual letter he sent her a five
milligram dexedrine he's like hey it's
going to be hard the last
just edit take this in focus so she
still has it this orange little five
milligram dexedrine for 4050 years she's
that's crazy
yeah the that Gibney documentary is
really fantastic it's probably one of
the best introductions that anybody
could have to try to get a grip on why
after all these years hunter resonates
with so many people I mean I think that
the give me documentary is brilliantly
and perfectly done I think that Thompson
means something different with Donald
Trump as president of the United States
to me you people could see before give
me sought before other like brilliant
writers saw before Taibbi did but when
Donald Trump became president of the
United States it was a lens onto the
past I felt like and you know I was a I
mean I'm a bitch-ass liberal like I was
fuckin upset and so one of the ways I
dealt with it was to just remove myself
to 1968 1967 1969 and I took the emotion
I had in the present and I realized that
Thompson is such a voice right now for
people that maybe don't know him only
know him through Fear and Loathing in
Las Vegas Terry Gilliam's film mm-hmm I
would like freaking dude to be a lens
that now if they read that they could
then read his work in perhaps you know
what his timelessness will come through
it was more it was an attempt to focus
that timelessness and that what helped
was the fucking terror of our present
yeah you can see the definitely see the
parallels and in his work you know who
also rings true like that is a lot of
Bill Hicks stuff on the first Gulf War
you know and and Bush as a president and
you know which obviously people today
would probably be dying to have Bush as
president you know he carried his book
around for two weeks at least he carried
a book well Herbert Walker the main the
older Bush was uh you know much more of
a reasonable gentleman you know yeah
well that's our discourse today to where
there couldn't be anything said
reasonably about him when he passed away
or even in his life I mean I think it's
not he's not very favorable right now
but one of the Hunter Thompson's main
influences was Norman Mailer I don't
think Norman Mailer writes well about
women you know I think that's I think
Thompson wrote better about women
Thompson didn't just what's rebus is
amilia with well mailer whenever he
writes about a woman it's like he's
watching the
sunette get off the Nixon airplane he's
like there were 33 redheads like five
had long legs like this like - it's like
male you didn't need to write that
fucking passage you're writing about
power and people more extreme than you
so I think Mila writes beautifully about
men that have more power than him and so
he writes about 1968 in Chicago where
Thompson didn't because Thompson was
beat up and he writes about that moment
of where Thompson's being beat up I'm
confuse him of the way he's writing
about women just he's describing them
physically the male gaze is that he will
he stabbed his wife he stabbed his wife
in the heart did he really yeah with the
pen knife what yeah he went to Velva
night he went to Bellevue for 14 days it
was the 1960s it he missed it yeah I
know he went to he did a psychiatrist i
key at revaluation instead of going to
jail well I think they stayed married
yeah what a reasonable lady yeah gender
politics later but I would say that
Thompson wrote well better about women
because he understood that writing about
people with more power than you was
really important and when a male there
writes about people with more power than
him when he writes about mayor Daly
beating the shit out of everybody
he writes really beautifully and that's
somebody that's resonating right now
with what Trump's doing with the
violence that we're seeing on the right
and on the Left where Mahler was sitting
with Pat Buchanan who was Nixon's main
aide in during that moment in Chicago
when the Haymarket in shattered and
everybody was beat up and they were
looking down from the 17th floor and
mailers thinking like well this is what
happens if police take over Society and
he writes beautifully about how the
police came and split the protesters
because he's so high up writing in
Hortis and Buchanan would write later
like I knew that Nixon was going to be
President of the United States because
of fucking Hubert Humphrey that gutless
old Ward Heeler can't control his own
convention and his own party how is he
going to be able to run the country and
so as soon as Chicago's violence erupted
the Nixon campaign knew they'd won the
election Bobby cannon it's really
interesting because even though hunter
would shit on him papica it was actually
a fan they drank they did a water gate
like they sat there and went deep like
all night but he definitely Hunter
definitely shit on him oh he's shit on
them hard I began to shit back on him
hard
now the first night they met was at the
Nixon
at the at the Holiday Inn in 1968 in New
Hampshire during Nixon's comeback
campaign and Thompson walks in and petty
candy goes who's this damn guy with the
damn ski jacket walking through our
goddamn Lobby and talks it's like I have
a press pass like I'm here to do this
and so they like have this big moment
and then later on that night Thompson
goes to a party with campaign people and
with Buckhannon and he brings a big
bottle of Wild Turkey and so began as a
young journalist at the time he worked
at the st. Louis post-dispatch I think
he'd gone to the Columbia Journalism
school he's working for Nixon as his
main policy guy he looks at Thomas he's
like that's the fucking the ski oh you
got a bottle of what oh if you got a
file at Old Crow like no will drink that
and so they stayed up all night they
talked about the Vietnam War and
Thompson you know talked about how it
just figures us to be in a foreign war
that's unjust and it destroys our
democratic ideals to be doing that and
Buchanan was like containment nuclear
war we're trying to get out of it and
they listen to each other till dawn like
that first night that they met now what
was your idea behind writing this book
like what would compelled you
I think we've mistaken Thompson I think
that we see him more as like a
doonesbury character I mean people who
know him really well don't but I think
that most people through whatever
cultural forces that we've had well he's
a boys because a lot of people don't
know the comparison what the doonesbury
so I think in the 80s are seventies
eighties 90s
the cartoon doonesbury by Gary Trudeau
it became there was a character on it
called Uncle Duke an Uncle Duke was
based on Hunter Thompson and he was kind
of an exaggerated version of Hunter
Thompson he was a cartoonish version of
Hunter s Thompson and I think Terry
Gilliam did a wonderful and kind of
authoress job on like a brilliant job on
fear loathing in las vegas but that's
also an exaggerated version right Hunter
Thompson and we forget today the amount
of work Hunter Thompson did the effort
he put out we forget that he was a
straight journalist
where he did the freelance assignments
he wrote the straight articles for years
to make money for his family and it
wasn't until he had his breakthrough
with Hell's Angels that he could develop
the style that we identify with today
and so it kills me that we identify him
more as a clown or like you know more as
a cartoonish figure as opposed to a very
serious political thinker political
activist and serious writer who can give
us insight into
fucking shit show we experience every
moment today well I think the the
perception of him is fairly nuanced I
don't think that everybody thinks of him
as a cartoon character although
particularly later on this life he was
relegated to that because he really
didn't speak well you know later on in
his life and he was just the drugs taken
over alcohol and his son writes about
the alcohol one read so beautifully
about the total alcoholism took on
Hunter nest Thompson we couldn't talk
anymore I mean when he was deep into his
60s his heart wasn't it was so hard to
even understand him there's a awful
piece that he did with Conan O'Brien or
Conan went to Woody Creek and shotguns
off the back porch with him and you
could barely understand a fucking word
hunter saying that's why I tried to end
it with Nixon leaving because it was
really sad when Nixon resigned Hunter
Thompson was at the Connecticut Hilton
which is a hotel right by the White
House any Leibowitz on the photographer
with Rolling Stone was calling him and
saying we need to get to the White House
Nixon is a leaving like he's gonna get
on a helicopter
and Thompson just laid in the grass and
he didn't go you know and that was
heartbreaking and he didn't end up
writing the a page spread that he needed
to instead it became any liebowitzes
photography which was a famous and in
retrospect like huge move for her career
but I think that that pain right there
of thinking that he'd spent 10 years I
mean he hated Nixon since the checkers
speech you know when Nixon was a VP for
Eisenhower he hated Nixon since 1962
when Nixon lost the California Governor
ship and said you in the press you'd be
giving me the shaft for so long like you
won't have dick Nixon to kick around
anymore like Thompson had seen that
Nixon was somebody who said I'm just the
poor son of a butcher I'm just this like
very hard-working you know American that
represents all of us we're behind that
like he was a politically you know
ravenous monster who was anti-communist
who would go to any extent to win and
Thompson saw that and Thompson knew that
other people saw in in 1964 the Barry
Goldwater convention in San Francisco my
favorite li named arena of all time the
cow
Barry Goldwater was gonna speak to
accept the nomination and what happened
was Nixon was introducing him it was
Nixon's way back from the wilderness
Thompson was a few rows back for the
first time Thompson I think was that
close to see him live and because like
you know I'm poor son of a butcher don't
think about me just think about Barry
Goldwater mr. conservative he'll become
mr. president and Thompson was like fuck
everybody here knows he's lying but they
think that that act of lying is a skill
and the way a used car salesman who lies
but he making a lot of money off it was
Gil for the way that Trump by selling
steaks to people and then they go
bankrupt and he gets rich
that's an American skill and Thompson
sense that from the start with Nixon and
so I think he battled against Nixon for
a decade for a lot of years and when
Nixon left I think he felt spent and so
I tried not to focus on the later you
know I ended then in 74 because I think
it it's he wrote some beautiful things
afterwards he was still aggressively he
definitely had some moments where he
decided to not do the assignment that he
was supposed to do and it was kind of
sad like the ali/foreman fight fucking
floated in the pool yeah float in the
pool with a Nixon mask on flew all the
way to Africa I miss one of the greatest
sportsman moments it was like Game six
of you know you know the Boston Red Sox
versus the Reds I think Ollie was
something different to people than I
think it's I don't think we have someone
like that today so it's very difficult
for us to understand people today look
at ollie and they go oh he was a
heavyweight boxing champion he was way
more than that he was a cultural figure
that represented the resistance to the
Vietnam War and represented it with the
biggest loss that any public figure had
ever shown and willingly gave up three
years of his career in his prime from
age 27 to 30 from 1967 from the
Cleveland big cat Williams fight he
didn't fight again for three years he
didn't train he didn't do anything they
kept him from his career why when he was
in his prime when he was the best
heavyweight of all time and he spoke
publicly and often and he was fucking
hated all over the country but he
represented something different like my
parents were hippies and when I was a
little kid
he lost to Leon spanks and the rematch
was on television my parents never
watched TV and they definitely never
watched boxing and they sat in front of
that TV to watch that I remember
thinking I can't believe my parents want
to watch a boxing match like this is
crazy it was probably like I don't know
maybe eight or nine years old or
something at the time and I just
remember thinking I can't believe my
parents want to watch a boxing match and
that's really when it sunk in to me at a
really early age that this guy was not
just this heavyweight boxer he was he
was a cultural icon he was a historical
figure he meant he meant a lot into
Hunter he meant a lot he meant something
something much bigger than just just a
boxer and so Hunter thought he was going
to a death sentence George Foreman had
crushed Joe Frazier he crushed everybody
I mean he was so powerful George Foreman
to this day is one of the all-time
scariest heavyweights of all time with
without a doubt he he could hit so
fucking hard and literally pick guys off
their feet he hit Joe Frazier and lifted
him off his feet with a punch and
everybody was convinced that that was
gonna happen to Holly that Ali had been
past its prime and look just look at
what George Foreman had done to Joe
Frazier what is he gonna do to Muhammad
Ali and I only just rope-a-dope him
until he got tired and then fucked him
up in front of the whole world that's
one of the greatest athletic moments I
mean we forget that athletes others like
Curt Flood you know they risked losing
weight Curt Flood was the American
baseball player who challenged the
reserve clause because baseball you
weren't allowed to get free agency for
another team and Curt Flood was this
great player and he was like I'm gonna
sit out and I'm gonna wait athletes like
Colin Kaepernick they've sacrificed a
career it's not the same with Muhammad
Ali who was like Babe Ruth and Barry
Bonds and like everybody combined at
that one moment Ryan but he was risking
it's the opposite of Trump Trump used
his celebrity to become this even more
mangled version of himself and get more
power well he used his celebrity to
speak for his virtue and his value and
his beliefs and sat like Thompson was
really good at understanding what
people sacrifice you know people have to
give up the wager you know between what
that act will be what the results will
be they may be later but he knew that
and so his respect for Olli from giving
up those years of his prime you know was
was enduring he keep Thompson came back
from that fight and he gave his son um
one boxing gloves that or Alize boxing
gloves Wow
yeah it's a very very unfortunate that
he missed that fight because it would
been fascinating to hear his take on
under me I'm sure he would have been so
moved when he saw Ali win but it wasn't
I mean that's a good point it wasn't
ticket evoke the stress and the pressure
that the last decade covering Nixon had
taken out on him well there's a little
bit of that but let's be honest he was
also kind of a fuckup I mean when he was
writing for Rolling Stone and they gave
him that that early fax Joe yeah and he
would fuck that thing up he would unplug
it and plug it back in he would do it
just so he could go to the bar and say
this thing doesn't work but that was the
end I think of his arc where he was
still on point he was still playing the
role of a serious journalist and he
would use that persona as a fuck up and
there's letters by yonghwan or being
like you cannot turn in your articles
three hours before we go to press I know
you made it this doesn't fucking work
and so he was beginning to break down
then he was also I think on the tail end
of his decade of being a journalist who
had met every deadline so that he could
fucking feed his family and he could
afford our farm like there were there's
moments where before he got the contract
for Hells Angels in 1965 he was ready to
be like a longshoreman he was going and
looking for work in the mornings in San
Francisco you know to try to support his
family he was willing to give up writing
and instead that article blew up and he
wrote all these beautiful letters began
to arrive at 319 Parnassus he lived at
UM at the hot top of the Haight Ashbury
in on San Francisco hmm and you know
that opened up his chance to continue
being a writer but money was the main
motivating factor and so I think once
money like unfurled once alcoholism I
think took its toll and once he couldn't
walk around anymore
at a political convention without people
just like grabbing his shoulder and
saying you're Hunter Thompson or unless
that happened I think things began to
change yeah that's one of the things
that he talked about that I thought was
really interesting that he became a part
of the story it wasn't just that he was
covering stories he couldn't be
anonymous anymore he was
in many cases more famous than the
people that he was covering yeah you
know like when he would go to meet
Knicks and all Nick Nixon Secret Service
agents wanted to meet them and they
wanted to get an autograph from him and
shake his hand and it was just too weird
everything they got and then there's the
alcoholism that alcoholism look it it's
a depressant it wrecks you and if you
read you know we me and Greg Fitzsimmons
on a podcast once read off that one
journalist who had detailed hunters
daily routine yeah and so we read the
daily routine and they put a techno beat
to it it's fucking hilarious that was
that's a set those are so it's so funny
because those seem funny you know now
but they're they're kind of a death
knell like I mean that that daily
routine that was the the biography
hunter it was in that and it's just it's
heartbreaking I mean we got to remember
that the dedication to Fear and Loathing
in Las Vegas was he who makes a beast of
himself gets rid the pain you know man
and I think the world was painful for
Hunter Thompson he was people to see
powerful people abused the weak you know
and like take what they wanted brazenly
without being held accountable I think
was hard to deal with shitty editors who
cut half your fucking essay on Nixon or
half your story it made it into
something that had nothing to do with
the effort that you put out yeah you
know I think it's hard to pay your bills
and you know live the way that you
wanted to live and I think a lot of that
gets undermined I I just want people to
realize how much effort he put out
especially during those years where he
was like all right I want to be a great
journalist I want to have a voice in our
society I want to participate in our
national conversation my only path
towards that is to work harder than
everybody else maybe it places when
things happen when they matter and he
sacrificed a lot for that but he was
there and he's a voice in a light that
we can have in this moment which is
another troubling moment in American
history yeah his voice was very unique
too and that he decided to combine
fiction with nonfiction in a very weird
blurry way I think it was so one thing I
think of is he usually gives you a cue
or what he did was he dramatized people
didn't dramatize oh wait a minute
he made shit up he didn't just drama
there's a rich doctor I didn't say that
there he did able gate I said there was
this is about Ed Muskies campaign I said
there was a rumor in Milwaukee that he
did it again I started there
yeah I mean that's what he says but when
we said that on a Dick Cavett show
yeah later and I think Matt Taibbi on
this show talked about it well where one
thing is that muskie was already out of
the campaign when that came out
must get already lost and so muskie had
been a fucking monster and a terrible
person on that campaign and so Thompson
used that version of muskie and wrote as
Taibbi said in a very straight way that
it became story and so if you had a
sense irony you kind of knew like you're
not really thinking that this is a guy
who did able gain so I think there's
cues in there for a listening audience
but what I think is even more you know
what I think he dramatized the way other
people didn't he would say I look left I
look up I see he came down to me and
then he said people didn't write like
that in journalism they didn't go step
by step and he did and that was really
important what I think is more important
than the Iligan story
so the emmagan story in the background
is Ed muskie was the frontrunner for the
Democratic primary in 1972 he fucked up
his campaign afterwards Thompson talked
about how he had heard that there there
was a rumor that this candidate was
doing it began which is like ayahuasca
or well though he said that they know
it's not like ayahuasca it's not no it's
very different elusive Ettore it's a
self-exam Ettore
but he said they brought in a Brazilian
witch doctor yeah yes it's a gain is not
even a Brazilian drug from Africa is
this something I got it but what I think
people don't remember is before that and
this affected the election and on
February of 1972 Thompson was in Florida
he was on something called the Sunshine
special it was a whistle-stop tour that
muskie the front-runner had a good
chance to beat Nixon poll numbers wise
was going all the way down the Florida
peninsula on to try to win the Florida
primary and Thompson was like this is
the most disgusting thing I've ever seen
like at every stop muskie gave the same
shit speech it's like somebody should be
a president namely me and it was
repeated the reporters were like fuckin
this is terrible
muskie was secluded in the back of the
car he didn't interact with anybody they
had his political operatives come out
and make everybody like seeing the song
like about like muskie like sunshine in
his hands the whole world in his hands
it was terrible
and so that night Tom
pulled into a Florida town it was a
second less stop and he in this young
political reporter named Monty Chitty
we're going to get a drink at 2:00 a.m.
and this guy walks into the lobby he's
like 6 6 250 Peter shared it and he he
walks in and he he says he's looking for
the muskie campaign all these different
things he ends up going out with Hunter
Thompson for a drink and Hunter Thompson
finds out that Peter Sheridan had been a
good friend of Jerry Garcia had hung out
with the Hells Angels in California had
been de la Honda where Ken Kesey was and
was actually a pretty smart guy who was
out of his mind in his mid-20s
they stayed out and drank all night at
the end of the night Thompson's like so
what are you doing tomorrow were you
going
and Peter Sharon was like wow I'm going
to Miami and Thompson's like we are too
you don't have to hitchhike fuck that
and so there's a really good journalist
outlaw it's called outlaw journalist by
Bill Makena another Thomson biography
talked about how Thompson took his
Thompson took his Press Pass put it into
the elevator press the button sent the
press passed down to the ground floor
Peter Sheridan got it so Peter Sheridan
could ride for free on the Sunshine
Express down to Miami the next day so
Thompson oversleeps
because the fucking muskie campaign
doesn't like him anyways instead Peter
Sheridan gets on the Sunshine Express
with a hundred Thompson press badge and
Peter Sheridan goes on to order 12
martinis and he goes give me a like a
triple gin bucks and hold the book and
he runs up and down the car and you know
muskie has been a really shitty
candidate at this point he's not been
engaging people he got in this weird
fight I'm with his wife at a um a
campaign event where they like put cake
in each other's face and it's been
really weird and people aren't reporting
on it like other reporters aren't saying
Muskies unstable and so muskie at the
end of this Whistlestop he spent all his
campaign money to go up and down and try
to do this Whistlestop like tour he
gives the speech at the caboose and
jerry rubin and the anti-war activist
who was one of the Chicago seven um and
was it has come to heckle him is in the
crowd and he's saying a muskie so why
did you support the Vietnam War in 1968
like who do you think you are and so
muskies yelling at Jerry Rubin he's
saying young man keep your mouth shut
beneath muskie reaching up from the
bottom of the caboose
Peter Sheridan is holding a gin bottle
and grabbing at Muskies leg as muskie
tries to give this speech and then
muskie falls back and the whole thing
ends like the whole press conference is
over
like Women's Wear Daily reported this
and it came out that Hunter Thompson had
had 13 martinis and run up and down the
train and had interfered with it and
muskies campaign really believed that
Thompson was working with Donald
Segretti and Nixon's creep Watergate
crew to fuckup Muskies campaign and that
actually changed the course it like
Thompson helped expose how fucked up
muskie was as a candidate at that time
and Thompson had never forgiven muskie
for being on the probe yet non-war
platform at the 1968 convention and so
we talked about the ibogaine aspect of
changing the campaign but that report
and the way that disseminated through
media the way it was picked up by other
newspapers really did help change the
people's perception of Ed muskie at Big
Ed muskie as Thompson called him at the
time now he when he wrote Hell's Angels
he hadn't really totally formulated that
sort of gonzo style of journalism but he
did have a little bit of fiction mixed
in with that and that sort of ran him a
foul of the hell a Hells Angels they
were very upset by that right like he
did write some things in there that they
claimed or not accurate I think that
when it came to Hells Angels what
Thompson did really well was what Joan
Didion did really well he took the way
the media was portraying somebody and he
stripped that off and said this is who
they actually are this is what they're
actually doing Joan Didion when she
writes about Jim Morrison and the White
Album
she's like Jim Morrison was like sex and
death in his leather pants was the best
thing ever
everybody loves Jim Morrison and then in
the scene in the White Album Joan Didion
writes about how they sit at a recording
studio for two hours and nobody says
anything and they thought of a paper bag
and it's a fucking nightmare
Thompson knew that the media was
sensationalizing the Hells Angels he
went to them on a cold night in San
Francisco down by the waterfront and he
said hey here's a Newsweek article
here's a time article here's how
everybody's writing about you all I want
to do is write the truth about who you
are and he did and he ended up writing
with them
and he ended up speaking about them I
don't think they got as mad at him about
the way he portrayed them I think they
got mad that he began to make money or
that he became famous Hells Angels five
hundred thousand paperback copies that
is almost impossible to imagine today
five hundred thousand paperback copies
of a literary book and the angels were
pissed off about that they felt Thompson
owed him more money or owed him
something for that did he get it at all
did he give them any more Sonny Barger
Sonny Barger so ridiculously Barger said
he owed us a keg and he didn't give us a
cake that's it you know and the the
famous story at the end of it is that
that it I mean really like when they go
through it what he said that he said
that Thompson was doing this objective
version of us but it was at least close
to them the shitty Newsweek and time
versions right and so Thompson at the
end of he'd finished the book barely
made the deadline had to go down to a
hotel in Monterey lock himself in state
for a hundred hours straight and write
it in March of a 67 to finish it so it
turns it in makes his um advance
deadline in September they're like
here's our author photo and it's shitty
he's like fuck this so he goes to a
Hells Angels rally he doesn't know
anybody because he hasn't been with him
for six or seven months he's taking
pictures that's when he got beat up I'm
learning about the Hells Angels and he
tiny his friend who later committed
suicide after Altamont after being
involved in the Altamont security
situation that's the rolling stone one
where the youngest yes where Meredith
hunter was stabbed but tiny it was a
woman that got stabbed
man Meredith honor Oh was a man named
Meredith I was back in the day where you
can name your kids Meredith right
like Marion Marion's another one Lindsey
Lindsey
some guys were Lindsey give me one Jamie
oh yeah but Jamie's normal well if
there's a lot of Jamie's that future man
scene where it's like it what's his name
is like my name is Susan in the future
men are named Susan I know it's a girl's
name in your time by her Edith is a
weird one though you must hate your
fucking son of a plan but lose an
argument with your boy that but that I
lost a lot are but that poor guy was but
Thompson was there and tiny grabbed him
after he was beat up there was a guy
holding a rock to drop it on Thompson
with the Hells Angels mm-hmm
tiny was like alright I know him I know
the rest of you don't and he grabbed him
out and tiny was this like enormous
Hells Angel who had been you know
Thompson was very good at empathetically
understanding their flaws and their
perspectives he'd never I think made
excuses for me said that their inherent
perspective is fascistic he writes that
you know he says they used violence to
respond to where they were in society
their idea of total retaliation the
Hells Angels or any offense like looking
at you funny or being like dude you
drink it could be met with everybody
beating you up because they got to
determine the they got the Hells Angels
got to determine the offense like that
was fascism to tell them and he wrote
beautifully about their reliance on
violence because he they felt the Hells
Angels they had been left behind by our
moderated society like there's
technology there's all these new jobs if
you came back from the war in 1950 you
had a chance in Oakland to have a
middle-class life in a beautiful house
in work the rest of your days and have a
family that will then go on but by 1965
that was no longer an option and the
angels were a violent response to that
very similar what we're seeing now and
so the way he wrote about the Hells
Angels so he similar the way that we see
violence within groups that are
supporting Trump you know Anna left and
the right did he ever wind up resolving
his differences with the Hells Angels I
think so Sonny Barger how they nose got
fucked like rightly so the Hells Angels
were you know pursued like a mob like a
like a mafia group people went to jail
Sonny Barger went to jail I think they
at the end appreciated his
representation of them because it was
better than any other one right there's
no better representation of the health
ain't no more sympathetic for sure yeah
are just no more accurate don't wonder
straight yeah no more like again I gets
to Thompson's effort if you ride for six
months with somebody mm-hmm and you're
an honest like putting up your hands
you're not trying to fit what you see
into a thesis you're doing the opposite
trying to look at the reality you have
in front of you and then form an
argument out of that yeah go here that's
what Thompson's gift was and very
dangerous to to do that I mean I mean he
did get beat up taking those folks I was
really bad motorcycle accident with his
friend on the Pakistan broke his leg
like it was sort up that's why he left
like get the fuck out of San Francisco
yeah Reese looks amazing like
temperatures amazing it's a it's a fire
that you're putting your hand on - how
did it burn - he was coming down it was
mayor of Richmond he was coming down a
slick road and they had hit like
something was wet or an oil thing and it
went out the back tire so Thompson
rolled it was fine but his friend's knee
hit railroad tracks so his friends need
rope really badly
it was the mayor it was the mayor of
Richmond and that's continued riding
motorcycles though I yeah he did he
would get an accidents at what he Creek
he was pretty careful like so I love
that scene in Hell's Angels I don't know
if readers our listeners know this but
the edge you know and that's a major
part of the book where Thompson's
fighting with his wife Thompson's
finished his book but he's breaking down
because he worked so hard to do it and
so he takes his BSA out and he goes if
you know San Francisco he goes out to
the park he hits the Coast Highway and
he comes down it and he's like I'm so
overwhelmed everything is so fucking
terrible he's going as fast as he can
and he talks about how his eyes begin to
lose moisture
you know the scene like it's this
beautiful scene he's looking for sand
pits because he hit a sand pit near the
zoo you're fucking done yeah and he gets
all the way to Rockaway Beach which is
in like halfway down to Santa Cruz and
he turns around and what he talks about
is when he's at a hundred miles per hour
I think he was near death if he was
really overwhelmed he says um you know
the edge the only people that know it
are the people that have gone over the
rest the living don't have any
understanding of it you know all we can
do is approach it in this way and it's
this beautiful end it's called midnight
on the coast highway it was a solid eyes
did Tom Wolfe you know and yes beautiful
so he comes back and he sits at his desk
and so he he had a view of the Bay
Bridge he could see its two flashing
lights the whole time and he had broken
the window in a terrible fight with his
wife like three weeks earlier and so he
sits the broken window and he writes out
that scene right away with his eyes
still scoured wasn't the broken window
when she wouldn't give him a gun because
he was on acid and he threw a shoe
through the window there's three there's
three versions so I do it and then I
give the three versions of the notes so
I go with the three versions that I've
heard like I heard it from jazz car you
know she wrote I really respect sandy
like deeply she wrote at the a few years
ago she said I'm done giving interviews
what about Thompson that was my life
that was then she's given so many
interviews up to this yeah
good versus that that exist and so I
wanted to respect that didn't we do more
than anything and just use the
information that had you know and let
the reader know yo here at three other
versions here's the best version I could
make dramatized look left throw do this
did you talk to Anita um
Anita's been great I had to talk to
Anita later but the book ended so early
that I did there's a beautiful our need
as a second wife or home yeah Anita
Thompson is um she runs Alf Arne she
runs kind of his legacy she does the
Facebook page she does a wonderful job
but what is our farm today did she still
live up there if she's gonna make it
into it like a writer's retreat
she's doing a wonderful job making it
into our writers retreat and also a like
a museum and it's taken a while but to
honor his legacy as a great political
like thinker and writer like a great
literary light but since she didn't meet
him till the 90s I wanted to focus on
the time that I was in and so I I think
talking to Bob Geiger you know his
friend then was close I was really lucky
Bob Tigers in his late 80s
mm-hmm he was able to go through like
because I had I believe if you interview
somebody you need to read everything
that exists already you know you need to
read everything they've already said you
don't want to ask them questions that
would I do interview for research that
they've already supplied answers to yeah
so this bob guy here I could see the
holes or things I didn't know and I was
able to sit with him talk about throwing
a football with Thompson you know talk
about taking the dog to the beach like
all these other things that's the
football thing is an interesting thing
he was obsessed with football and that's
one thing that he shared in common with
Nixon and so when they went one time
they were going to the airport and he
hitched a ride with Nixon and Nixon
wanted to talk to him about football he
said let's just not talk about politics
when we talk about football and so he
taught my favorite the whole side it was
it was a 1968 Pat Buchanan had help set
it up it out that week they'd become
friends and so they come to Thompson
like all right the boss is gonna take a
plane to Florida you can come and talk
to him and so later Thompson said later
was like they told me not to talk about
any about football but earlier Thompson
said like I was just really awkward like
this fucking guy they're both in the
back bench of a mercury and so it's
before Secret Service so it's just a cop
driving and it's like Pappy Canon in the
front and it's Tom so then Nixon in the
here next to each other and Thompson's
like well you know earlier in the night
you'd said that you know the Oakland
Raiders had a good shot to beat the
Packers in Super Bowl - can you talk
about that and he was like NYX is like
my good friend Vince Lombardi had told
me to watch out for the AFL because they
pass they can be very effective and so
Thompson then like remembers that guy
Bob Geiger had been a professional
quarterback he had taken Thompson to his
first football game and Thompson said
NFL is better than the AFL and Giger's
like shut the fuck up let's go to a
Raiders game and they went in 65 and the
Raiders won on this beautiful pass
Tom Flores a beautiful goal line pass
and Nixon was saying the same thing and
so then at that moment at that moment
Thompson's like oh yeah it was the Miami
guy Miller Miller who'd caught the pass
and Nixon goes taps him on the knee and
Gus you're right and goes oh what a
beautiful moment it tops it's just like
what the fuck is going on so Nixon
apparently they were talking about like
college draft picks and all kinds of
crazy shit like Nixon was deep into it
it was the only moment Thompson said
that he knew Nixon wasn't lying I could
talk about football and that in that
instant it's fascinating what people
they're so diametrically opposed to each
other but they find common ground
Thompson did a great job of that and I
think we've lost it today I mean you
have to listen to the other side too if
you if you politically want to beat
somebody like Pappy cannon you want to
defeat his tactics if you want to defeat
him you need to know how he's thinking
of what he's doing Thompson knew that
bikina was listening to the left to
defeat them I saw Thompson listen to P
Keenan what led him to move to Colorado
oh he was losing his shit in San
Francisco it was that night on the
fucking motorcycle well I mean but how
did he choose Colorado so this is a
great story and like the early 60s
Thompson had had a chance to drive I
don't know some sort of cargo I got
friend's car out to Colorado on his way
to San Francisco in 1960 he ended up
doing a road trip up and down San
Francisco after he passed through
Colorado but he stopped in Colorado
because he had to drop off a friend's
car and there was a woman there
Peggy Clifford who was a journalist and
was his good friend at the Aspen I'm
Daily Times and she was older she saw
him like after driving 20 hours she's
like hey come on my house
hangout she lived right in Aspen and
Woody Creek and so then in 1963 after
sandy was pregnant Thompson came back
from South America where he was a
reporter and did a wonderful job like
reporting on how democracies were
falling apart down there him and sandy
wanted to move West because the National
observer was the newspaper Thompson
worked for they wanted to give Thompson
a position to be a Western reporter he
was thinking of one in San Francisco but
instead he chose to stop first where
Peggy Clifford was were stopped in Aspen
and Woody Creek and so he was living in
announcement and what he Creek from
August of 1963 to February of 1963 and
he was there this is where freaking them
begins he was there when John F Kennedy
was assassinated and he's sitting in his
like living room it's you know 10:00
a.m. 11:00 a.m. Pacific time he gets a
knock on the door and it's this Rancher
named Wayne Wagner which is an old Aspen
family and that ranch is like the
president has been shot like what's more
he's been murdered he's dead
Thompson just like let's how to sob then
he begins to fucking swear and then he
fucking calms down and he goes downtown
I'm Morty Creek he goes to Aspen and he
just gets notes from people what their
responses are and so when he then went
to San Francisco to become the
correspondent for for the magazine that
he was working for he was having a tough
time he was already wanting to flee
because he got Hells Angels he was able
to stay in San Francisco longer write
report on them by 1966-67 he was like
this city is not a good place from he
has a great quote about like what would
have happened if he stayed in the San
Francisco from c7.r he's like no it
burned up I would have been a mole ated
right there yeah so when it was time to
leave he thought again of Woody Creek
and of Aspen which was so different then
than it is now and that was a place that
he decided to move in rent for a little
while at first but then because of the
success of Hells Angels he was able to
buy our farm mm-hmm Aspen is very
different but Woody Creek is not that
much different Woody Creek is still
pretty it's great
basalt Morty creeks are great yeah
there's a great this place called the
temporary they did an event with one
Thompson and I like did a reading at it
and like a lot of Thompson's friends
were there so I'm like I'm some fucking
young I got
I didn't know Thompson like I'm an
interloper you know like I'm out there
and it was really great to talk to
everybody that knew him and to go
through it and that's why I that's why
this book almost killed me because I did
a note for every sound cell our site or
comment like if I wrote and then at the
moment Thompson felt what the fuck am I
doing here
I had the quote where he said I looked
around then and I felt what the fuck am
I doing here and I had that in the notes
so people could see it and it was
because I wanted those people that knew
him well and respected him and trusted
him to not think that I was in any way
trying anything but to make good art off
of his life and who he was trying to
respond to my fucking view of Trump
right now
and my love of his work in this moment
um why do you say it almost killed you
it's not possible to write a narrative
and then also cite every detail of the
narrative so each day I would spend nine
hours researching and outlining with
citations every wanted to write like a
novel I wanted to be like you know and
at that moment I felt like I nice the
Machine oil from the bay was coming off
I wanted to read it vividly mm-hmm I
knew that I had to support all of that
and so I would spend eight or nine hours
every day just on the pure arrangement
in research and then for the next six or
seven hours or eight hours I would write
the narrative and then I'd sleep for
five or six hours you know I'd get up
and I would do it again and I did this
for four or five months you know after I
was deeply into it and I don't think
that's sustainable I think it's better
in retrospect to go and report somewhere
you know to like go and be in the middle
of Congress and take notes but to try to
write something with the dramatized
nature that I think Thompson wrote well
and having my prose having nothing like
his you know I wanted my prose to sound
nothing like the way he wrote but then
to also have almost as many pages of
notes showing my work you know like
showing the math that went behind so if
I'm wrong I'm wrong but at least you can
see it I think that was morally correct
but I think that was too much effort
when it comes just because you were
trying to do it in a short period of
time did you have a crazy deadline or
something yes but I also had a year and
so you know and I had a family and I had
a professor like I just I'd never
when it came to writing had to do both
those things which was to try to write
in a in a novelistic way but then to
also make sure that any question the
reader would have but like why did you
think that the dinner was at 5:00 p.m.
you know or like you know why why did
you think the Sun was coming up in this
way at this moment to make sure cuz out
of respect because what Thompson talked
about was people making money off I'm
like doonesbury yeah you know like
that's what he talked about was people
trying to make money on phone and if I
was gonna write this book it could have
it couldn't be in that space didn't he
have a lawsuit against Gary Trudeau he
thought about it I think though I don't
I ever did it he talked about a public
yeah and he was just well that he became
that guy unfortunately that's what's
really weird what happens become a
caricature of ourselves it's really
scary do you know um well it it's what's
weird about it is that he kind of knew
that it was happening like there's that
famous interview where he's talking to
that British guy who did a documentary
about him breakfast with hunter maybe or
no but yeah one of them yeah one of them
but he's he's rolling a joint on the
grass somewhere with that Las Vegas
visor on and he's you know talking about
how he's really become this caricature
and it would be actually be better if he
wasn't alive anymore you know then he's
breaking up with his wife during that it
was really sad there's a scene in that
where he hides where he's at like a
parking lot he doesn't want people to
see him and he's standing against the
wall and people like come on we got to
go he's like I just don't want anybody
to see me right now it was really sad
and then I I tried to take that tragedy
- and he wrote great things afterwards
he was a great friend of people after
his like Ron White had this wonderful
poet from Louisville was a dear friend
of his like all through his life but the
tragedy of how much effort he put out -
if we want to write about Trump if you
want to go after like Taibbi did about
the financial institution the way
Thompson did it was to kind of wager
time later for time now and he talks
about that he says you mean by the
chemical speed he says doing dexedrine
being an alcoholic
instead of changing his life and his
rhythms he said I'm wagering time later
for time now I'm using up energy or
things that I might have by burning the
candles so brightly at this instant
because I believe I need to go after
these moments and I later I'm not going
to have it but I'm making that gamble
I'm putting the card down right
and I think that's terrifying and I also
think that he gave us brilliant writing
over one of the most remarkable spans in
American history because of it that's a
weird tradition and journalism right
destroy your body while creating your
art and I think there's a according to
my friends with journalists
there's a big problem with adderall
today and there's a lot of people that
are using it to write and it's fucking
speed and you know you get addicted
I mean adderall makes everything in
front of you closer have you done it
yeah so my first book was called hyper
my personal history of ADHD so was about
being medicated as a child you were
medicated yeah I like having pills
forced out my throat like also olya six
when I took weirdal in for the first
time and I had I had a suicidal moment
and like six years old Wow the first
time you were six you wanted to commit
suicide I held like a butter knife to my
wrist I don't remember it but yeah I
kind of remember it but yeah it was on
ritalin which I've taken now as an adult
and I always feel startled when I'm on
it if I ever take a Ritalin now why do
you like no I I take it - right like
this world is incredibly painful so I
take out a role now and I take it - how
often - yeah every day I take like 30
milligrams a day really and I take it -
I take it to go into a library and this
is what David Wallace wells was talking
about I think like two days ago on the
show was how do you read really shitty
academic articles where you need the
information from them I'm not good at
that I'm not good at even making like a
car reservation you know like a car
rental reservation and so this world's
going to be painful no matter what but
there's a functionality that adderall
allows and it's always a wager or
Thompson writes about is whenever
something is given something else is
lost you never get anything for free in
this world
Thompson understood that better than
anybody so with him with dexedrine I'm
not gonna say Thomson was hyperactive
I'm not gonna go into that but dexedrine
like Geiger was like yo you're breaking
down like you're 26 you have a wife you
have a very small child you're writing
right now you want to have your career
go forward you're not doing well he
Geiger was like I'm a doctor I I had
gone through med school you know I did
it I'd been overwhelmed like you got ran
every morning you know he did he did
other things but he took dexedrine so he
gave it to Thompson and for that small
period of time
it helped I mean
for me it's like I I I'm not a good
researcher and maybe I would be now but
the only way I can write about something
like hydros Thompson where I didn't know
him I have no experience with him is to
read everything that he's ever written
or been written about him and then go
out and interview people and so effort
is my only path forward and what a
Darrell helps for me is to take the pain
away of that effort but it doesn't take
it away it shifts it around to other
aspects in other parts of life and I
think Thompson when he wrote he who
makes a beast so himself escapes the
pain or gets hurt the pain at Bingham
man we don't listen that like he was
like this effort is hard
he's like I'm struggling with this
effort I'm trying to make these
beautiful things I always think a James
Salter fiction writer aspen resident
wrote beautiful novels he wrote his
whole life till he was 90 his last novel
was at 87 he wrote a memoir at 76 about
being a fighter pilot among other things
in the Korean War lyric literary he did
it his whole life he didn't he didn't
burn out for a small period of time he's
the antonym to Thompson I think when it
comes to effort and literary work right
um
do you just take it for work yeah I mean
you don't have like an issue that you
need to take it for oh my I mean where
we were I think that well whenever we
have something like chemical speed
whenever we have something like alcohol
whenever we have something that's not
like marijuana where at least marijuana
cuts your mania you know like whenever
we have something else like alcohol or
adderall we need to ask a question or is
it is taking the pain away and being
productive through those actually
hastening your own doom and I think with
alcohol is very clear it is adderall
it's more complex I think if you do an
amount of time release you can make it
work how many Americans do that out of
the percent that are prescribed you know
I don't know 10% 20% like it's dangerous
how often you take time off I'd say
maybe one or two weeks of every three or
four months and when you do that do you
feel weird no I just watch movies you
think I just don't do anything it
doesn't
don't have any productivity I don't I
don't wanna reduce so the only way you
produce is on speed the only way I
produce the way I want to right now is
on speed I didn't start taking it till
I'm 2010
dude it's crazy that we're talking about
this because there's so many people like
you it's um it's so common how much of
the work that we enjoy today especially
literary work is written by people
journalistic work is written by people
that are on speed that's not new I mean
that's what Thompson and Burroughs and
southern like this has been I believe
that our American society the situation
I'm in I have created a situation where
I have too much work and it's my fault I
should not be trying to be a professor
and also go report at college and also
at George Mason in the creative writing
program you know and also then be
hosting like people coming out and also
then like be trying to research
something that might be my next thing
that's too much and the way Thompson saw
dexedrine was that he could make reality
match his effort so there was no longer
the limit it was the American Dream idea
it must put out enough effort you'll get
it and that's why I think he so
brilliantly understood the toxicity of
the American Dream is that the effort is
what destroys you mmm just because you
have a path with the effort to be richer
be successful that doesn't mean that's a
good thing right that's what will
actually dismantle you yeah it's putting
it out and I think we forget that do you
one of the things about Hunter that's
really intoxicating is that his sort of
self-destructive path becomes romantic
when you read it and you get involved in
his work and you kind of mimic it you
know it's a that's the greatest fallacy
I think I think what he was trying to
say with self-destruction was that this
was an incredible threat to our American
democracy not all meaning on I mean I
mean his there's no romanticism chewing
his well I mean the romantic aspect of
it was that his work was fantastic I
mean when it was till it wasn't it was
fantastic till it was it wasn't I mean
it's why he understood what in the
failure it wasn't but he lived in with
he spent much more time within the
consequences
yeah of that binging than he did within
the success of the binging right and
that I think he knew that mm-hmm it is
letters it's really beautiful and
heartbreaking and in his writing too I
mean I think that's what's been missed
about him is there's
romanticism self-destruction right
towards the end he definitely lost his
productivity and yawn Werner talked
about that in the Alex Gibney
documentary sticky-fingers was a great
the document out of the new book on the
new book on yawn winter has great
moments of Thompson the 70s just being
kind of lost yeah you know and I think I
think we got to remember that we have
incredible times in American history we
have times that are gonna burn brightly
and it's up to each writer to decide how
they like to burn next to it and yeah
gonna burn brightly they may not have
other times and that's I think an
American thing where you can wager that
bright flame which means you may have
nothing left afterwards but Thompson
knew that he may have to live in that
kind of afterlife but want wan Thompson
writes about it so beautifully yeah
stories I tell myself there's some some
footage of him when he was writing for I
forget what newspaper some what was it
somewhere in the Pacific Northwest what
what was he writing for who's the author
of playing off the rail Google playing
off the rail there's a guy who was a
journalist what year do you think it was
what David McCumber yes David McCumber
David McCumber employed hunter for a
while when David was I forget what
publication he was working for but
there's some footage of them community
communicating together and you know I
was trying to get hunter San Francisco
was in San Francisco and hunters just
out of his fucking mind I mean it was
younger you mean he wasn't even that old
but he was just wrecked he just couldn't
communicate he couldn't talk and you
know I mean a bit he makes a beast of
you escape the pain of articulation you
escape the pain of saying this is what's
wrong in American society for him to say
the way he did one of his great essays
is from 1964 it's about going to
Hemingway's um Ketchum Idaho on grave in
Hemingway's house and it
it's gorgeous because it talks about
Hemingway was a good writer one of the
best writers when he was writing about a
period he understood in the 1940s 1930s
when there was a firmness to the reality
that he could articulate one of the
writers goals is to give a pattern to
chaos is to give an articulation to cast
about what happens in the 1960s when the
chaos is multiplying repeatedly somebody
like Hemingway becomes a literal relic
like his narrative no longer fits
into the president that he's in and
Thompson saw Hemingway his decline and
he wrote about Hemingway's suicide I
mean by his narrative doesn't fit
Hemingway's idea of what America was and
what a man should be fit perfectly with
what I think the 20s to the 40s when we
experienced but I think in the early
1960s with our social upheaval of civil
rights of uh you know political upheaval
Hemingway it was confusing to him it
didn't it didn't fit anymore like his
way of operating no longer articulated
the president's right and so Hemingway
his last act was to take away his
ability to say anything at all that was
his only the last thing he ever said was
to say I'm not going to say anything
anymore was the suicide that Hemingway
committed and Thompson wrote about that
gorgeously
yeah when when I was young when he wound
up killing himself
it was almost unsurprising you know when
when I read that he had died I remember
going man well I guess yeah you know man
I mean it's like you knew that he was
deteriorating rapidly you knew that he
had really bad hips
he had hip replacement surgery the
Ralphs and leg yeah Ralph Steadman had
drawn this very crazy image of him with
the artificial hip and yeah it looked
like pain you know I mean but I think
that it's not my place to even deal with
that because Warren Thompson's book
writes about that moment where one
Thomson was in the house you know and
that's that's that's his but and one
writes beautifully about the stakes of
it how painful it was to the people that
loved him corners everything about it
and how that even if that's a logical
outcome that that's not no it needed it
so it's interesting I would say read
stories I tell myself with that moment
is so honestly and brilliantly written
by Warren know I'm sure but Baum oh I
was getting at is that at the time of
his death you know he was in just sort
of a he was deteriorating so badly he
was wearing diapers
his entire because of his alcoholism his
ability to control his body was gone
hmm and so one gave this wonderful
speech at George Mason when he came out
he's like how do you write honestly
about your father
and he asked the question of like should
I include this detail and he's like if
my father was alive I couldn't include
that but that's why I chose in a sense
to write my book where my father was
dead because I think my father would
want me to write honestly but also not
want me to include that if he was still
alive and so he included that detail and
he talked about that the struggle to
include that detail which I think
brilliantly articulates what you're
saying which is the deterioration yeah
and the sadness of it and I mean we have
finite amounts of energy or effort we
really do we have to take care of
ourselves if we don't we will pay that
price at some point we're gonna pay it
anyways we're all headed to the same
place mmm we want to or not you know and
so I think hunter is a really terrifying
a beautiful example of one wager of
chips that were made for the 1960s and
1970s mhm and I think the best way to
honor that is to you know apply the
brilliance that he forged and carved to
the situation we have right now with
corruption Donald Trump of an attack on
American democracy where American
democracy is basically it's like what
early on says democracy is a train and
we arrive at the station we get off like
they basically used the ladder to get to
the Attic and now Trump's pulling up the
ladder mm-hmm and I think um someone
understand that really really well and I
think reading him now whether you know
him or not helps you and that's why I
wrote free Kingdom was so that it can be
a lens on his work going back or just on
this present right now there will be
regardless of Trump I think what he
really represents is a brilliant
historical time capsule and he he sort
of captures that time period that
upheaval pre-internet where the world
was in chaos like no one else he he he
encapsulated this very strange moment in
history which I don't think is nearly as
strange as the moment were going through
right now I think this is probably the
most strange moment ever yeah but he he
nailed it and he nailed it in a very
very unique way that still today
I mean well that was another thing I
want to ask you about what why did him
in Tom wolf like Tom Wolf's got some of
his tapes from some of the was at La
Honda the Hells Angels pose dangerous
parties and some crazy orgy that was
going on and he gave him the
tapes to this like what was all that
about so when Thompson was covering the
Hells Angels they believed the
counterculture at the left in the 1960s
65 66 we're talking about Ken Kesey
we're talking about the anti-war
movement the free speech moment with
Mario Savio they believe the Hells
Angels were on their side there were
fellow countercultural lists that are
also outside of the ball game and so
Kesey and Thompson we're having a drink
after being on like KQED or like some
local TV show in San Francisco and you
know Ken Kesey's background is he was a
wrestler at Oregon grew up on a dairy
farm he come down to Stanford to write
for what is now the stinger fellowship
but back then was the graduate program
at Stanford he had moved up to LA Honda
on the success of his first book on One
Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest and it just
written another beautiful book and so
Thomson was like yeah I'm writing about
the Hells Angels in Keyes he was like yo
or I'd like to meet them Thomas was like
okay and so Thompson knew how dangerous
the Hells Angels were at war I think
people either romanticize them or
exaggerated their danger he's like okay
I'll set them up and you know he
contacted the chapter with Kesey so on
August 7th I think of 1965 like the
Hells Angels came to LA Honda Allen
Ginsberg was there with Kesey Alpert was
there you know who liked all of it all
the Stanford intellectuals were there
and they made a huge banner that says
the Merry Pranksters welcomed the Hells
Angels
and Thompson rolled up with this isn't
this isn't the Gibney documentary
Thompson rolled up with his family Juan
was a child baby in the backseat and he
was in the front seat
and he pulled up in what Thomson saw was
Ken Kesey giving acid in red cups like
red cake cups to the Hells Angels
Thompson was like well we're getting the
fuck out of here and so he grabs his
wife and his son they go to San Clemente
which is on the other side they have
like a big picnic and on the way back
they're like well let's just check it
out let's see what it's like and they
kind of pull in he's driving this old
like roadster they pull in and
everybody's watching on a giant
trampoline screen like the five hour
stream of consciousness footage from the
Merry Pranksters trip across the across
the US which is what Tom Wolfe wrote
about and Thompson's like all right
they're not eating each other's skulls
like we can hang out a little bit so
they hung out and it was interesting
how acid pacified the Angels instead of
made them violent and that's what acid
you know of course that's what else it
is but they spent the night hanging out
there
Thompson was writing so he's like I'm
not gonna do drugs he's like I'll have a
few drinks he's taking notes for his
book later on in the night him and Allen
Ginsberg and this is something I cut out
of the book are like let's go get some
beer as the cops are staking out the
property and Ginsberg and Thompson get
pulled over by the cops
Thompson's sober he's talking to the
cops he gets a ticket because his red
lens for his back taillight is cracked
and he's like come on day that's three
in a box like I'm a journalist the cops
are like why are you writing about them
and they're talking about like people
being taken away to jail and kids burgos
what's in what's uh what's in Redwood
City man how she goes it's called a jail
Allen and that goes back to talking to
the cops and all of this and Thompson
was friends with Ginsburg and so they go
back into the party Thompson realizes
that Neal Cassidy who's blackout drunk
who is Dean Moriarty and on the road by
Jack Kerouac that's the character on who
it was based his two or three
girlfriends one of them is having an
orgy with the Hells Angels at this cabin
off to the side and Thompson sees it and
he describes it in two ways when he
writes about it but he did audio notes
so he did audio notes of step-by-step
uh-huh and he describes us like just
horrific where she's barely awake I'm
like she's she's catatonic and they
bring in Neal Cassady to hook up with
her to it's horrific and he articulates
his horror I had a friend who's a good
feminist writer like whose dear to me
she's like deny me you wrote about a
fucking white guy like whatever she's
like he did most of it right she's like
you excused
Thompson in that moment you should have
just let it stand and write about it in
the book instead of try to talk about
how upset he was saying it Thompson was
really upset so why did she say that
that doesn't make any sense because I
think she thought that I was making the
experience less authentic by trying to
qualify it for our current times but why
would that be the case when you were
just explained explain oh I should have
just allowed Thompson helmet no but I
think I should have let him stand more
instead of showing or amplifying his
emotion too much but he's saying the
based on her criticism not personal
opinion no I think that he was really
upset but I think him being really upset
is secondary to whatever she was
experiencing right but you're writing
about him yes so I stand by it
like I thought about that what I wrote
it yeah I stand by it but what was what
is her criticism again that by
amplifying his upsetness by showing how
upset he was that that's too much of an
excuse for him just just write it where
he was think he should have done stepped
in no no no no nothing like that she was
on point she thought I shouldn't she
felt the effort on my part to try to
explain his upsetness instead of just
having him be upset with one sentence
and then go on she thought it was over
writing I thought it was a fair
criticism where I over wrote it but long
story short Thompson goes back and he
goes like he's eating goes this is one
of the worst things I've ever seen this
is in the documentary right that's the
case then why would why would it be that
you were overriding it that doesn't seem
like you overrode it I always worry I'm
over writing this one it might create
it's one of my great fears is that if
someone sees something like that I think
it's important that you accurately relay
the emotions that they experience when
they're watching a horrific event I mean
he did to survive it as horrific but how
much of it is my cultural perception of
this moment that I'm giving too much to
Thompson and how much of it was what he
accurately experienced but he's talked
about so I think just giving his words
instead of a saying a little bit you
know going okay I don't know what he
said yeah yeah and so but he goes back
in heat on his notes that night these
are the notes he gave to Ken Kesey I'm
sorry these are the notes to him to Tom
Wolfe he says he's gave him the
recordings no I don't think there were
actual recordings no I don't I think
that is Rob Wolfe so no that's what one
of the documentaries said Tom Wolfe said
he gave me there were the notes of it so
I'm gonna be the notes of what happened
and Tom Wolfe I know what those notes
are used those notes okay to recreate
that scene in electric kool-aid acid
test mmm and so this is why we talk
about truth later in life Thompson some
biographies might have said that he
actually recorded the event he didn't he
went back and he took these long audio
notes right of like shadow and light and
the whore that he saw that's what I'm
saying yeah he took the audio notes the
recording he made the record yes yes and
then grab those two Tom Wolfe and Tamil
exactly yeah but some people have said
that he put the tape recorder in them no
no that's not that's not what I meant I
mean
he gave him the recordings and I was
like they're terrifying but it's about
like violence and shadow and light and
horror you know it's a horrific it's a
horrific scene that says Thompson's
brilliance at that age he could in an
audio note get the fucking images and
details that he needs to express the the
nature of that instant and so Tom Wolfe
used those to create it himself but then
Thompson recreated it to wrote about it
in house angels yeah but in a more
distant way than Wolfe did which is
crazy because he was actually there it's
fucking crazy dude now is the first time
Thompson ever took acid because he was
so upset he went to Kesey he's like fuck
it I'm not a journalist anymore
that's so horrific what I saw fuck it I
he had friends that had told him that
he's a personality where if he did acid
to go to the bottom of the well for him
you know this would be a really horrific
thing and so he's like I don't care
anymore and instead he just walked
around and like was that peace like
that's always funny when someone tells
you how you're gonna recycle a drug
relax right yeah you're gonna react to
it how you're gonna react to it
what was it like for you when you
finally finished this when you when you
put the last page down and you knew you
were done I know that you like me share
we have an adoration for this guy that's
uh you mean he's one of my for sure
personal heroes I mean it the last image
I wrote was uh one of the most people
think Thompson Thompson writes is
something he didn't actually see was wit
Nixon's helicopter he saw it on on TV
left the White House lawn what happens
is that you know giant helicopter with
the white top and the blue its wheels
lose their pressure so the wheels are
you know flattened at the bottom but as
the rotors begin to bring it up they
become elongated wheels that still touch
the ground
Thompson wrote that image and I've
always loved that image mmm so I was
writing that in a sense when I was at
CPAC in 2018 last year and I was walking
out just after I wrote that and hence
this helicopter was on the lawn right
there and it was lifting off and I saw
the wheels elongate just like that and I
just had so much respect for Thompson's
ability as a we talk about fiction as a
narrative writer to detail that instant
you know and to detail the way that that
long gated and went you know to have
that be the emotion of Nixon finally
departing and so I felt you know I felt
I gave it you know I throw as hard as I
could throw as many pitches as I could I
threw for as long as I can you know and
I hope that everybody knows it's my
version of Thompson and then it's a
version of Thompson and written through
the lens of Donald Trump
but hopefully that it's through the
effort and through the detail a version
that might bring more people to Thompson
while also at the same time for Thompson
fans you know being something that they
can respect and engage beautiful well
thank you for writing it thank you for
just highlighting who this guy was and
thanks for all your work man I
appreciate it thanks for being a good
fan in and for highlighting news or to
you that you're beautiful poster we
didn't even talk about it the Aspinwall
poster that you have right in here is
just so gorgeous yeah I got a hunter
shit all over the place it's fantastic
it's good it's good
yeah no I'm I'm a die hard for sure
listen man thank you brother thank you
very much thank you
Thanks doing this tell everybody the
book where to get it how to get a free
Kingdom Hunter Thompson's 10-year manic
crusade against American fascism it's
available everywhere on Amazon I'm at
Tim de Neve II I'm out on Twitter and
you should check out the gonzo voice
twitter hashtag which has Thompson
quotes all the time which is great and
you know it's a great guy on Instagram
too there's a couple of jacks gonzo
directs gonzo and the Jackalope he's
another guy who's got a bunch of Gwen
and Nina Thompson does a great job on
Facebook and now if you are interested
Thompson you don't know him I hope you
read free Kingdom and that's a lens on
his work you know to organize it and if
you love Thompson I hope you read free
Kingdom too because that's a way to
engage him again beautiful thank you
everybody
bye Joe
[Music]
[Applause]